---
slug: /welcome-to-new-dev-city-blog
date: 2020-04-10
author: Tim Combs
title: Welcome to the New Dev City Blog!
cover_image: ./images/newdevcity-logo.png
---

# Welcome to New Dev City!

This is my first published blog post and I want to thank you for reading it!

I'm thanking you at the very beginning because I write to share the information I've learned along the way with you. I want you to understand that even though our problem-solving skills, our coding environments, our interests are specific to us, we also have more similiarities than differences and

## Reasons for the Blog

I have a lot interests and come to working with web and digital technologies after 20 years of working in the arts, education, and for nonprofits and community groups.

So I see the future of the future of the web as Secure, Inclusive, and Accessible for all. The future is NOW! The internet was created by scientists who are by nature, collaborative and creative, to survive a global war. Since then, the WorldWideWeb was invented and in the 1990s the "Weird Web" flourished, the web hadn't been commercialized and was mostly a collection of websites that showed the love of the creators for a huge diversity of topics.

Since then, though has become even more amazing with the explosion of Open Source JavaScript technologies, it has lost its unique, personal touch. To keep the web vibrant and creative we need to have a web that lets us all participate and share in its creation.

For that to work best, each of us has to feel safe and secure while we create and consume the web.

## Why call it New Dev City

Well, everyone that creates is a Dev, a developer of ideas who takes those ideas and makes them a reality. I'm also referring to a new world, a future of technological inclusion for all people. We all need to create our own alternative ecosystems using the technologies given us in our own style.

Every day, new developers around the world, from all classes and ethnnicities and genders are making the web their own. I write this blog to promote these new, cool forms and ways of organizing the web. Let's take it over and make it intensely personal again!

## What I'll Blog About

There will be a lot of posts for new web developers. Some of the posts will talk about important technologies, there will be tutorials, and deep dives on web topics. I plan to have smaller "bites" in a section called Tips N Tricks,  quick snippets of code or explanations of command line commands or how to solve little errors when trying to configure your coding environment.

I'll cover the social web as well, pointing out specific inclusion and accessibility concerns and gains. And I'll spend some time looking at security issues; as IOT (the Internet of Things) becomes a greater part of our lives, we have to make sure we make we protect our data and our identities.

And I'll talk about my love for the intersection of art and code - even if they aren't web technologies. Look for posts about:

- Real time Video synthesis and feedback
- Pure Data - audio and visual flow programming
- Workflows for making glitchy visual art
- Processing - a library for making visual art
- THREE.js & the HTML5 canvas
- online bots
- specific artists doing really cool stuff
- and other weird creative technologies that spark my interests

Thanks again for reading this and welcome to New Dev City!