---
slug: //git-commands-part1
date: 2019-04-24
author: Tim Combs
title: Git Commands - Part 1
published: false
---

I love Git. Git creates a version control environment for software developers working on teams. Git provides a schema to keep track of multiple developers working on the same project, often in the same part of the code and provides an easy way to resolve conflicts, track versions historically and do a lot of heavy lifting by keeping track of all the versions of all the features.

However, for most of us, Git is not the most-intuitive system.

This series of posts will provide a shallow, and sometimes a deeper dive, on git commands and operations. This post concerns basic commands, later posts in the series will cover intermediate and more advanced commands.

## Basic Git Commands

```bash
git init
```

Initializes a repository to use git, either in an empty repository or reinitializes an existing repository. Creates the .git directory in the repository that holds the directories and files that keep track of configuration, history, branches, etc. This is the collection of toppings that makes the git "sandwich" so yummy.

```bash
git help
```

also

```bash
git help <command>
```

git help is your friend. Typing this at the command line will bring up a list of git commands with a short description. For a deeper dive, typing git help \<command\> will display the git manual entry on the specific command.

While Google search is also your friend, learning to read tech manuals will pay dividends in the long run as coding is so much about learning how to ask the right questions in the right jargon in the right place at the right time.

```bash
git status
```

Checking the status of your git workflow is something you will do 100s of times a day. In fact, it is smart to git (HA!) in the habit of checking it before you enter other git commands, just to make sure you know where you are at in your workflow.

git status tells you what branch you are on, whether you are up to date with the master branch, whether you have changes to files that need to be committed, and whether you have pushed those changes to the remote repository.

If you spell status (or any other git command) wrong git will give you a list of commands that are similar to your misspelling:

```bash
git: 'tats' is not a git command. See 'git --help'.

The most similar command is
        status
```

This sounds trivial, but actually shortens the time it takes for you to realize your mistake. At the command line everything often looks the same. Reducing your "technical debt" is something that you need to start paying attention to at the beginning of your coding career.

```bash
git branch
```

Displays a list of current active branches and notes which branch you are currently using.

```bash
git branch <branchname>
```

If \<branchname\> does not exist, then git creates a new branch using that name, but will **not** switch to the new branch. If branch already exists, will output an error message.

```bash
git checkout <branchname>
```

Switches to a new branch.

```bash
git checkout -b <branchname>
```

I use this all the time. It creates a new branch then switches to that branch. If branch already exists, outputs error message and stays on current branch.

```bash
git branch -d <branchname>
```

Deletes a branch.
