---
slug: /online-learning-tips
date: 2019-04-10
author: Tim Combs
title: Online Learning Tips & Tricks
published: true
---

Here we go again with more tips & tricks. Our brains are wired in specific ways to learn, but often, as coders, we work against those ways because we have so much to learn in a limited amount of time. One of the reasons for the well-trod cliche "Work smarter, not harder."

## Here are 6 online learning tips & tricks
- find recent online resources. Code moves quick, new versions of growing technologies may appear monthly, major breaking changes that supersede past versions often happen yearly. Often tutorials or code snips you'll find online don't work, which leads to learner frustration which slows the learning process.
- if the tutorial is do start with a simple string (or obj depending on what you are working on), focus on understanding then iterate to a more complicated use case. 
- test at every step, get understanding, then add the next chunk of code. 
- find a online community of coders to support you on your coding journey. Having people you can trust to ask your "stupid" questions will be invaluable on your learning path. As you grow in skill you'll have a pool of people to work on projects together. "A rising tide lifts all boats."
- type it out, don't copy/paste. You will always feel pressed for time when learning, but type code out so your hands will gain the unconscious muscle memory. If your typing skills aren't up to par, many coders are speed-typers, try one of these sites:
  - https://typing.io/ - still the standard, learn coding in many languages
  - http://www.speedcoder.net/ - newer, learn coding in many languages
  - https://www.shortcutfoo.com/ - good for learning shortcuts
- don't clone the exact code you see. The tendency of tutorials is to have you code out their exact code to make it work. However, you can more fully engage the thinking/learning part of your brain by changing small pieces of the code, like variable names or the values of data that you'll work with, or changing the colors of the css, etc. Make all the code yours and you'll learn from all of it.